## Inference with CTC decoders 
The purpose of the experiment is to investigate how running the inference, using the beam search algorithm and CTC decoders from two different libraries -- `pyctcdecode` and `torchaudio` -- impacts the quality of the transcripts generated by the ASR model.
Generally, it's considered beneficial to decode the ASR model's outputs using the beam search algorithm, rather than the naive, greedy search algorithm (which, for each audio slice, selects the most probable character based on the `.argmax()` function applied to the sequences of the probability distribution over the vocabulary dimension of the ASR model's outputs), as it allows to obtain the sentences that are transcribed more accurately. The beam search decoding solves a few problems that plague the greedy search, e.g. predicting the same character over a span of multiple consecutive steps. However, there are several methods to further increase the accuracy of the decoded transcripts, namely:
+ the spelling dictionary (that serves as a constraint for the ASR model and conditions it to only predict the words from the dictionary);
+ the N-gram language model (that contains the n-grams of a selected order, e.g. bigrams, trigrams, 4-grams, etc. and their respective logit scores, and instructs the model to predict the more probable sequences of words).

## Requirements 
For the project, you'll need the following libraries and their versions:
+ transformers==4.23.1
+ pyctcdecode==0.4.0
+ torch==1.12.1+cu102
+ torchaudio==0.12.1+cu102

## Data
The `.wav` files used for the experiment should be placed in the same directory as the main file, `asr_inference_with_ctc_decoder.ipynb`. E.g.: the path to the project's dircetory can look like that: `"\asr_beam_search_experiment\"`. Other necessary files that should be placed under the project directory, include:
+ `tokens.txt` defining the possible characters and special symbols required specifically for the decoding, e.g. silent symbol, blank symbol, etc.
+ `unigrams.txt` for the `transformers` model, and  `lexicon.txt` for the `torchaudio` model (both are used as a spelling dictionary guiding the ASR model, and each word is written on a new line; however, `lexicon.txt` also provides a whitespaced spelling of a word on the same line, tab- or whitespace-separated from the word itself, e.g.: "apple\ta p p l e |".)
+ `5gram.arpa` containing the custom-built LM model (for the `pyctcdecode`'s CTC decoder, you also have the possibility of running the decoding process with the default LM).

The project's results are stored in the text files (human-readable format is chosen for convenience and easier line-to-line comparison):
+ `transcripts_transformers.txt` contains the sentences generated by both the greedy and beam search (several configurations) algorithms applied to the outputs of the `transformers` model;
+ `transcripts_torchaudio.txt` contains the sentences generated by both the greedy and beam search (several configurations) algorithms applied to the outputs of the `torchaudio` model;
+ `transcripts_joint.txt` combines the results of the above two.

## Experiment
The project is divided into two parts -- running inference using the greedy search and the beam search + CTC decoder with the `transformers` model, and then repeating the same two steps with the `torchaudio` model.<br>
For the first part of the experiment, you'll need to initialize the original Ukrainian ASR model from `HuggingFace transformers` and build the CTC decoder available via the `pyctcdecode` library.<br>
The `torchaudio` library provides its own CTC decoder and setting it up is quite simple; however, you'll need to convert the original `transformers` model to the `torchaudio` format to be able to run the second part of the experiment.<br>
Both parts require initializing the CTC decoder using the external linguistic sources listed above.<br>
There are several configurable parameters in both CTC decoders, but only one of them -- `beam_width`, or `beam_size`, -- is investigated extensively within this project. Other customizable parameters and the code examples of how to use them are given in the project, but are out of the scope of the experiment.<br>
Running the project notebook should execute both parts automatically, and thorough instuctions are provided for each step inside the `.ipynb` file. (**NOTE**: due to how the decoders work, you may get the transcripts that are slightly different from those in the notebook -- it's an expected behaviour, and it doesn't change the major conclusions on the experiment findings.)
